Mithril update 2026-07-15 (#808)
IntersectMBO/cardano-updates: blog/2026-07-15-mithril.md

---
title: Mithril Team Update
slug: 2026-07-15-mithril
authors: jpraynaud
tags: [mithril]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level overview

This week, the Mithril team completed the modularity enhancement of the SNARK recursive circuit with gadgets. They continued work on refactoring the non-recursive SNARK proof to not carry the circuit verification key, on analyzing and optimizing the testing strategy of the STM SNARK modules, and on upgrading the midnight-zk library to `2.3.3`.

The team also completed the enhancement of the aggregator state machine to support the `Blocked` state. They continued work on implementing the aggregator CLI commands for the decentralized configuration parameters. Additionally, they continued work on shipping the Mithril signer node binary in the Cardano node bundle, the release of the `2628` distribution, the upgrade to Cardano `11.1`, and the update of the DMQ node to `0.7.0.0`.

> Finally, the team completed the upgrade of Rust to version `1.97`, the fix for the Mithril install script failing on the `unstable` version, and the capture of the end-to-end execution logs in artifacts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This week, the Mithril team completed the modularity enhancement of the SNARK recursive circuit with gadgets. They continued work on refactoring the non-recursive SNARK proof to avoid carrying the circuit verification key, analyzing and optimizing the testing strategy for the STM SNARK modules, and upgrading the `midnight-zk` library to `2.3.3`.

The team also enhanced the aggregator state machine to support the `Blocked` state and continued implementing the aggregator CLI commands for decentralized configuration parameters. Additionally, they continued shipping the Mithril signer node binary in the Cardano node bundle, working on the release of the `2628` distribution, upgrading to Cardano `11.1`, and updating the DMQ node to `0.7.0.0`.

Finally, the team completed the Rust upgrade to version `1.97`, fixed the Mithril install script failing on the `unstable` version, and captured the end-to-end execution logs as artifacts.
```
